README.md, before:

# Home Assistant Realtime GTFS NYC MTA Card

This is a custom card for Home Assistant to show the NYC subway feed. It is powered by data from with [ha-gtfs-rt](https://github.com/zacs/ha-gtfs-rt). There are several forks of that  integration; it's likely they will all work with this card but you may have to modify the YAML config slightly.

# Setup

## 1. Installation

### Manual

1. Copy the raw code in `/dist/index.js`
2. Create a file in the `/config/www/`. Call it `mta-card.js`.
3. Paste the code in this new file and save it.


## 2. Setting up GTFS realtime feeds
Follow the instructions to install [ha-gtfs-rt](https://github.com/zacs/ha-gtfs-rt) on your Home Assistant. Do not configure any sensors yet, use these instructions below.

## 3. Get Subway API Key
Visit [MTA Developers](https://bt.mta.info/wiki/Developers/Index) to get an API key. Request a key from this link. The Bus Time API also works for subways.

## 4. Set up senors
Open the `configuration.yaml` file in the `config/` directory.

Under sensor, add the following template

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: gtfs_rt
    trip_update_url: <api-endpoint-found-in-next-step>
    x_api_key: <your-mta-api-key>
```


## 4. Choose Subway Feeds
For each train you want to see, copy the feed's [API endpoints](https://api.mta.info/#/subwayRealTimeFeeds) and add to the template. For example, if you want to track the `A`, `C`, and `L` trains, you'll need the following. Note that the `A` and `C` trains share the same `trip_update_url`, so we only need two objects in the sensor array to track our three trains.


```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: gtfs_rt
    trip_update_url: https://api-endpoint.mta.info/Dataservice/mtagtfsfeeds/nyct%2Fgtfs-ace
    x_api_key: <your-mta-api-key>
  - platform: gtfs_rt
    trip_update_url: https://api-endpoint.mta.info/Dataservice/mtagtfsfeeds/nyct%2Fgtfs-l
    x_api_key: <your-mta-api-key>
```

## 5. Choose Subway Stations
Add a departures array to each sensor. The example below will add sensors for `A` and `C` trains going north and south.

| Field  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| ------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| name   | The name of sensor in Home Assistant. Choose a value that is intuitive to you. Examples: "A North" or "A Northbound 14th St St"                                                                                                                                                   |
| route  | This controls the icon of the train in the feed. Choose a value that matches the [list of SVG files](https://github.com/louh/mta-subway-bullets/tree/main/dist/svg). This is case sensitive. For example, if you set this value as `"A"`, the card will use `a.svg` for the icon. |
| stopid | This is the stop ID you want to track arrival train times for. More instructions on how to find this below.                                                                                                                                                                       |

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: gtfs_rt
    trip_update_url: https://api-endpoint.mta.info/Dataservice/mtagtfsfeeds/nyct%2Fgtfs-ace
    x_api_key: <your-mta-api-key>
    departures:
      - name: "A North"
        route: "A"
        stopid: "A31N"
      - name: "A South"
        route: "A"
        stopid: "A31S"
      - name: "C North"
        route: "C"
        stopid: "A31N"
      - name: "C South"
        route: "C"
        stopid: "A31S"
  - platform: gtfs_rt
    trip_update_url: https://api-endpoint.mta.info/Dataservice/mtagtfsfeeds/nyct%2Fgtfs-l
    x_api_key: <your-mta-api-key>
    departures:
      - name: "L East"
        route: "L"
        stopid: "L01S"
```


## 6. Find Stop IDs
Use [Transit Feeds](https://transitfeeds.com/p/mta/79/latest/routes) to find all stop IDs for a given train. Note that stop IDs are shared between subway lines. For example, Northbound `A` and `C` trains at `14th St` have an ID of `A31N`.

Sometimes this is not obvious. The [A24S](https://transitfeeds.com/p/mta/79/latest/stop/A24S) stop has `A`, `B`, `C`, and `D` trains, but the naming only references the `A` train.

The first character refers to the train. The middle two characters are the stop number. The last character is the direction.

The map only shows southbound trains but just flip the last character from `S` to `N` for the northbound trains at the same station.

There are stop IDs that show both directions of trains. For example, this would be `A28` without a fourth character. Do not use these stop IDs for sensors; they will not work correctly with this custom card.


## 7. Configure the MTA Card
Add a card to your dashboard. In the `Search cards` bar, type "MTA Card." Use the following configuration:

| Field          | Description                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| title          | The text at the top of the card                                                                                                                                                                 |
| sensor name    | The sensor name will depend on the name specified in `configuration.yaml`                                                                                                                       |
| sensor minutes | How many minutes it takes you to walk to the subway. This hides any subway times that will depart before you get to the station. Exclude this field if you don't want to filter out any trains. |

```yaml
type: custom:mta-card
title: Southbound Trains and L
sensors:
  - name: sensor.a_south
    minutes: 3
  - name: sensor.c_south
    minutes: 3
  - name: sensor.l_east
    minutes: 3
```

# Contributing

Please feel free to make PRs! I am not sure how to best control the card size with `getGridOptions` and would appreciate the help of the Home Assistant community.

Commit message:

updated readme and added preview image

README.md, after:

# Home Assistant Realtime GTFS NYC MTA Card

This is a custom card for Home Assistant to show the NYC subway feed. It is powered by data from with [ha-gtfs-rt](https://github.com/zacs/ha-gtfs-rt). There are several forks of that  integration; it's likely they will all work with this card but you may have to modify the YAML config slightly.

![card preview](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/akambale/ha-gtfs-mta-card/refs/heads/main/preview.png)

# Setup

## 1. Installation

### Manual

1. Copy the raw code in [/dist/index.js](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/akambale/ha-gtfs-mta-card/refs/heads/main/dist/index.js)
2. Create a file in the `/config/www/`. Call it `mta-card.js`.
3. Paste the code in this new file and save it.


## 2. Setting up GTFS realtime feeds
Follow the instructions to install [ha-gtfs-rt](https://github.com/zacs/ha-gtfs-rt) on your Home Assistant. Do not configure any sensors yet, use these instructions below.

## 3. Get Subway API Key
Visit [MTA Developers](https://bt.mta.info/wiki/Developers/Index) to get an API key. Request a key from this link. The Bus Time API also works for subways.

## 4. Set up senors
Open the `configuration.yaml` file in the `config/` directory.

Under sensor, add the following template

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: gtfs_rt
    trip_update_url: <api-endpoint-found-in-next-step>
    x_api_key: <your-mta-api-key>
```


## 4. Choose Subway Feeds
For each train you want to see, copy the feed's [API endpoints](https://api.mta.info/#/subwayRealTimeFeeds) and add to the template. For example, if you want to track the `A`, `C`, and `L` trains, you'll need the following. Note that the `A` and `C` trains share the same `trip_update_url`, so we only need two objects in the sensor array to track our three trains.


```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: gtfs_rt
    trip_update_url: https://api-endpoint.mta.info/Dataservice/mtagtfsfeeds/nyct%2Fgtfs-ace
    x_api_key: <your-mta-api-key>
  - platform: gtfs_rt
    trip_update_url: https://api-endpoint.mta.info/Dataservice/mtagtfsfeeds/nyct%2Fgtfs-l
    x_api_key: <your-mta-api-key>
```

## 5. Choose Subway Stations
Add a departures array to each sensor. The example below will add sensors for `A` and `C` trains going north and south and the `L` train going south (or east towards Brooklyn).

| Field  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| ------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| name   | The name of sensor in Home Assistant. Choose a value that is intuitive to you. Examples: "A North" or "A Northbound 14th St"                                                                                                                                                        |
| route  | This controls the icon of the train in the feed. Choose a value that matches the [list of SVG files](https://github.com/louh/mta-subway-bullets/tree/main/dist/svg). This is case insensitive. For example, if you set this value as `"A"`, the card will use `a.svg` for the icon. |
| stopid | This is the stop ID you want to track arrival train times for. More instructions on how to find this below.                                                                                                                                                                         |

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: gtfs_rt
    trip_update_url: https://api-endpoint.mta.info/Dataservice/mtagtfsfeeds/nyct%2Fgtfs-ace
    x_api_key: <your-mta-api-key>
    departures:
      - name: "A North"
        route: "A"
        stopid: "A31N"
      - name: "A South"
        route: "A"
        stopid: "A31S"
      - name: "C North"
        route: "C"
        stopid: "A31N"
      - name: "C South"
        route: "C"
        stopid: "A31S"
  - platform: gtfs_rt
    trip_update_url: https://api-endpoint.mta.info/Dataservice/mtagtfsfeeds/nyct%2Fgtfs-l
    x_api_key: <your-mta-api-key>
    departures:
      - name: "L East"
        route: "L"
        stopid: "L01S"
```


## 6. Find Stop IDs
Use [Transit Feeds](https://transitfeeds.com/p/mta/79/latest/routes) to find all stop IDs for a given train. Note that stop IDs are shared between subway lines. For example, Northbound `A` and `C` trains at `14th St` have an ID of `A31N`.

Sometimes this is not obvious. The [A24S](https://transitfeeds.com/p/mta/79/latest/stop/A24S) stop has `A`, `B`, `C`, and `D` trains, but the naming only references the `A` train.

The first character refers to the train. The middle two characters are the stop number. The last character is the direction.

The map only shows southbound trains but just flip the last character from `S` to `N` for the northbound trains at the same station.

There are stop IDs that show both directions of trains. For example, this would be `A28` without a fourth character. Do not use these stop IDs for sensors; they will not work correctly with this custom card.


## 7. Configure the MTA Card
Add a card to your dashboard. In the `Search cards` bar, type "MTA Card." Use the following configuration:

| Field          | Description                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| title          | The text at the top of the card                                                                                                                                                                 |
| sensor name    | The sensor name will depend on the name specified in `configuration.yaml`                                                                                                                       |
| sensor minutes | How many minutes it takes you to walk to the subway. This hides any subway times that will depart before you get to the station. Exclude this field if you don't want to filter out any trains. |

```yaml
type: custom:mta-card
title: Southbound Trains and L
sensors:
  - name: sensor.a_south
    minutes: 3
  - name: sensor.c_south
    minutes: 3
  - name: sensor.l_east
    minutes: 4 # giving myself an extra minute to walk down the stairs to the L platform 
```

# Contributing

Please feel free to make PRs! I am not sure how to best control the card size with `getGridOptions` and would appreciate the help of the Home Assistant community.
